DBOS Client Docs (#333)
dbos-inc/dbos-docs: docs/typescript/reference/client.md

If you are using a non-standard system database name in your DBOS application, you must also provide the name to `DBOSClient.create`.

Example: 

```ts
import { DBOSClient } from "@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk";

const client = await DBOSClient.create("postgresql://postgres:password@localhost:5432/my_app_db");
```

#### `destroy`

Asynchronously destroys a `DBOSClient` instance.

#### `enqueue`

Enqueues a workflow, similar to [passing a queue name to `startWorkflow`](./transactapi/dbos-class.md#starting-background-workflows)
or using [`DBOS.withWorkflowQueue`](./transactapi/dbos-class.md#using-workflow-queues). 
Like `startWorkflow`, the `enqueue` method returns a `WorkflowHandle` that you can use to retrieve the workflow results 
asynchronously from an external application.

When enqueuing a workflow from within a DBOS application, the workflow and queue metadata can be retrieved automatically.
However, since `DBOSClient` runs outside the DBOS application, the metadata must be specified explicitly.
This metadata includes:

> * `workflowName`: The name of the workflow method being enqueued.

Reviewer: We should make it clearer that only `workflowName` and `queueName` are required, the rest are all optional.

* `workflowID`: The unique ID for the enqueued workflow. DBOS Client will generate a [UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) if left undefined. Please see [Workflow IDs and Idempotency](../tutorials/workflow-tutorial#workflow-ids-and-idempotency) for more information.

In addition to the `EnqueueOptions` described above, you must also provide the workflow arguments to `enqueue`. 
These are passed to `enqueue` after the initial `EnqueueOptions` parameter.
By default, the workflow arguments are not type checked. 
However, you can achieve type safety for the arguments and the returned `WorkflowHandle` by specifying the function type parameter when calling enqueue.

:::tip
Note, DBOS Client is designed to work independently of your DBOS application code.
You do not need your DBOS workflow function's implementation to make `enqueue` type safe.

> You only need the type declaration for the function.

Reviewer: Is this type-safety optional? If so, we should indicate that

Type declarations are automatically generated by the TypeScript compiler during compilation of your DBOS application.
You can copy or import the declaration from your application's [generated declaration file (aka.d.ts file)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/declaration-files/introduction.html).
::: 

Example:

```ts

> // TypeScript type declaration for our sample app workflow

Reviewer: Can we also do an example without any type safety?

declare class DocumentDetective {
    static indexDocument(url: string): Promise<number>
}

// create a helper type for the workflow we are enqueuing 
type IndexDocument = typeof DocumentDetective.indexDocument;

// type safe arguments for enqueue call by use of 
// the helper type + Parameters utility type

> const documentWFID = //application specific code to generate an unique ID

Reviewer: We can shorten this example a bit to emphasize how simple clients are, maybe don't use WFID and consolidate the last few comments.

        options: EnqueueOptions,
        ...args: Parameters<T>
    ): Promise<WorkflowHandle<Awaited<ReturnType<T>>>>;
    retrieveWorkflow<T = unknown>(workflowID: string): WorkflowHandle<Awaited<T>>;
    send<T>(destinationID: string, message: T, topic?: string, idempotencyKey?: string): Promise<void>;
    getEvent<T>(workflowID: string, key: string, timeoutSeconds?: number): Promise<T | null>;
}
```

#### `create`

You construct a `DBOSClient` with the static `create` function. 

The `databaseUrl` parameter is a [standard PostgreSQL connection URI](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING-URIS)
for the DBOS application database.
DBOS Client also needs to connect to the [system database](../../explanations/system-tables.md) of your DBOS application.
The system database is stored on the same database server as the application database and typically has the same name as your application database, but suffixed with `_dbos_sys`. 
If you are using a non-standard system database name in your DBOS application, you must also provide the name to `DBOSClient.create`.

Example: 

```ts
import { DBOSClient } from "@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk";

> const client = await DBOSClient.create("postgresql://postgres:password@localhost:5432/my_app_db");

Reviewer: For consistency, let's make this `process.env.DBOS_DATABASE_URL`.

Reviewer: And reference the configuration page, like we do in Python.

* `queueName`: The name of the [WorkflowQueue](./transactapi/workflow-queues#class-workflowqueue) to enqueue the workflow on.

Additional but optional metadata includes:

* `appVersion`: The version of your application that should process this workflow. 
If left undefined, it will be updated to the current version when the workflow is first dequeued. 
Please see [Managing Application Versions](../../production/self-hosting/workflow-recovery#managing-application-versions) for more information.
* `workflowID`: The unique ID for the enqueued workflow. 
If left undefined, DBOS Client will generate a [UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier).
Please see [Workflow IDs and Idempotency](../tutorials/workflow-tutorial#workflow-ids-and-idempotency) for more information.

In addition to the `EnqueueOptions` described above, you must also provide the workflow arguments to `enqueue`. 
These are passed to `enqueue` after the initial `EnqueueOptions` parameter.

Since DBOS Client works independently of your DBOS application code, `enqueue` accepts whatever arguments you provide it without verifying if they match the workflow's expected argument types.

> However, you can get a better developer experience by providing a function declaration type parameter to `enqueue`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, you can get type safety by providing a function declaration type parameter to `enqueue`.
```

---
sidebar_position: 25
title: DBOS Client
description: DBOS Client reference
---

`DBOSClient` provides a programmatic way to interact with your DBOS application from external code.
`DBOSClient` includes methods similar to [`DBOS`](./transactapi/dbos-class.md)
that make sense to be used outside of a DBOS workflow or step, such as `enqueueWorkflow` or `getEvent`.

:::note 
`DBOSClient` is included in the `@dbos-inc/dbos-sdk` package, the same package that used by DBOS applications.
Where DBOS applications use the [static `DBOS` class](./transactapi/dbos-class.md),
external applications use the `DBOSClient` class instead.
:::

### class DBOSClient

```ts
interface EnqueueOptions {
    workflowName: string;
    workflowClassName: string;
    queueName: string;
    appVersion?: string;
    workflowID?: string;
}

class DBOSClient {
    static create(databaseUrl: string, systemDatabase?: string): Promise<DBOSClient>;
    destroy(): Promise<void>;
    async enqueue<T extends (...args: any[]) => Promise<any>>(
        options: EnqueueOptions,
        ...args: Parameters<T>
    ): Promise<WorkflowHandle<Awaited<ReturnType<T>>>>

>     enqueue<T extends unknown[]>(options: EnqueueOptions, ...args: T): Promise<void>;

Reviewer 2: Why two enqueue here?

Author: When I changed enqueue to return a WF Handle, I pasted in the new signature and forgot to delete the old one. Will remove the old signature
